(COMMENTATOR)
It's been one week since
the Byakuya Gang incident.
Things have finally settled
back down to normal,
haven't they?
They have.
t's all thanks to everyone
in the village
listening and taking
my speech to heart.
However,
the rumors that were started
by the Byakuya Gang
caused a lot of damage.
I realize that
there are people
who are still dissatisfied
and I don't blame them.
I intend to address
their concerns.
There's been a decrease
in the number of genin
applicants lately...
but I heard our genin
performed quite admirably!
Genin don't usually
have an opportunity
to go on a mission
like that
but the ones in the area
greatly helped our efforts.
I'm so thankful and
especially proud of them.
(COMMENTATOR)
How wonderful.
[scoff]
So why did you ignore
your orders?
[grunt]
You're suspended for now,
so go on home.
(COMMENTATOR)
Thanks to those genin...
we have peace and security
in the Hidden Leaf Village!
I finally got through a school
year without repeating
and made it as a genin,
but still...!
And you also have news
to share about
the upcoming Chunin Exam...
That's right.
I'm very happy to report
that this year's Chunin Exam
will be held in
the Hidden Leaf Village.
I want all genin
to do their best
so that they
can participate
in the Chunin Exam.
Chunin...
Exam?!
Oh no! At this rate,
I'll have to repeat again!
But this time, as a genin!
Now that you're managing
all the hamlets
far from the village,
your work has expanded
big time.
And there were already
enough things
on your plate to begin with.
You don't need to
worry about me.
The one I'm worried
about is...Shikadai!
Why are you worried
about him all of a sudden?
As usual, I have no idea
what he's up to
or what he's thinking about.
However, since the incident,
he seems to be studying
the art of war.
[laughing]
Sounds familiar!
He's starting to
take after his dad
and not just in looks.
Yeah...
The question is
should I be happy
or sad about that?
As if we didn't have
enough going on...
Now we have to prepare
for the Chunin Exams
at the same time...
Man, what a dra‐‐
I mean...
All right, easy there.
The genin are getting
pumped up
about taking the exam,
so us grown‐ups
need to be careful
about what we say.
[laughing]
Good point.
Well, anyway,
we're really short‐handed
overall right now.
The lack of genin applicants
is a serious issue.
It's not like it used to be.
Guess there's a lot of
other career choices
besides being a shinobi.
Hmmm...
It really is becoming
a problem, isn't it?
Huh?
(UDON)
Excuse me...
Oh! Hello there, Udon!
Good afternoon.
Your team is the one
that's still on suspension,
isn't that right?
Ah... Yes.
I'm ashamed to admit it.
Well, let me inform you that
it's over as of right now.
Uh...!
I have the perfect mission
for your team.
I swear...!
I'm gonna become a chunin,
no matter what!
There's no way in hell
I'm gonna repeat
this year again, dammit!
Actually, I don't think
it's called "repeating"
anymore at this point.
Besides, the number
of applicants
for the Chunin Exam
is limited every year.
So it is not that big
of a deal
even if you do not make it
the first or second time.
While all of that may be true,
I'm sick and tired
of being the one
who's always left behind...
by you guys and the others!
I understand.
Denki!
So then, what do you think
our team should do, Iwabe?
Well...
You have to be recommended
by the sensei that's
in charge of your team
to be able to participate
in the Chinin Exam.
We worked hard to become genin
and we earned these headbands,
but when
the crucial moment came,
we weren't allowed to help
with the Byakuya Gang
incident one bit!
‐ Hm.
At this rate, we won't
ever get recommended.
We have to show everyone
how good we are.
Don't you agree?
Yeah...
I see what you're saying.
And the worst part is,
if we do not get
to take the exam,
then we will totally
end up being called
"Team Repeater!"
‐ Ehhhh...!
So, from now on, you guys...
We have to give 100%!
‐ Right!
All right, Team 7,
here's your assignment:
"Please deliver these items
"to the hamlet
outside the village."
Gotcha! We can get
this done super quick!
Wait a second.
You might not wanna
make it sound so easy.
But...if we do not
act on this quickly,
the villagers
are going to suffer.
Yes, that's true, but...
saying we can get it
"done quickly"
isn't necessarily accurate.
This is different from
the Byakuya Gang stuff
because we're actually
gonna be helping people.
[chuckle]
[chuckles]
Yes! Let's get to it!
(SARADA & MITSUKI)
Right!
[sigh]
Uhhh...
Long time no see, guys!
Is your arm
all better now, Metal?
Yes!
I am as good as new.
I'm so glad to see
you've recovered.
Hey, sorry for all
the trouble we caused.
I promise to do my best!
It's your first mission
in a while.
Are you feeling nervous?
[laugh]
Yeah, kinda...
We have to put
our best effort into this.
Hey, Udon...
You got a mission already?
[sniff]
Oh, hey, Konohamaru.
Yeah, it sure looks that way.
All right. Let's see what
the assignment is for Team 5.
[gulps and sighs]
"Enrollment in the Academy's
ninjutsu curriculum
"has been steadily
dropping every year,
"so you will all appear in
a promotional documentary."
A documentary?
We've never done that!
I wanna be in the documentary,
Ms. Suika! Pick me!
As I was saying...
Pull yourself together.
You were just talking about
helping people remember?
[grunts]
Heh heh.
We're gonna set out
on our mission.
Huh? But wait a second...
[sigh]
Fine...
[grunt]
I don't know, you guys...
This is an unusual mission.
A‐Are you sure we are
qualified to do this?
We are just coming off
a suspension.
Yeah, since it's for PR,
shouldn't it be a team that's
already distinguished itself?
‐ [growling]
‐ Oh! I'm sorry!
I didn't mean it like that!
This could be our chance!
‐ Huh?
If we could somehow shine
in this promotional video,
then our reputation
would really sky rocket!
Oh yeah!
That makes sense!
This really could
be our chance!
(UDON)
You guys...
Huh?
Your suspension being lifted
doesn't mean anything.
[sniff]
In fact, from now on,
your true worth as a shinobi
will be questioned
at every turn.
Of course!
We'll just have to prove
ourselves with our actions!
Ch‐Ch‐Ch‐Ch‐Check,
is this on?
Mmmm!
D‐Don't slack off!
Y‐You hear me?!
‐ What're you doing?! Cut!
You need to relax!
We're not filming a drama here
so you need to
settle down a bit.
Just be natural.
Oh, uh...right...
I am very sorry.
Damn it.
I'm under a lot of pressure
right now
to come up with
some cool footage.
Th‐That's the director's job
all right!
Don't be a smart aleck!
This thing has to
be cool and flashy!
This documentary must convey
the "ideal image of a shinobi"
so that it draws in
potential applicants.
Oh right! We got it.
We'll be cool and flashy!
I'm counting on you.
Let's go.
Rolling!
‐ Mmmmm...!
[sniff]
Oh, there you are!
Look, I really don't think
this is gonna work out.
What's the problem?
I didn't want to have to
ask you this, Captain, but...
Do you think that
there's another team
you could introduce me to?
Huh?
The thing is...if they're
gonna act so nervous,
I just can't film them
like that.
Would you mind talking
to Lord Hokage
about getting another team?
I'm sorry,
but this team was personally
chosen by Lord Hokage himself.
Huh?
Ah...but, you know...
[exhale]
They're the same guys
who were just released
from suspension, right?
I'm a bit worried...
You don't have anything
to worry about.
They are all
exceptional shinobi.
Oh? Is that right?
Well, since you're
their jonin in charge...
maybe I should just
listen to you
and continue filming, right?
You know, I used to
want to be a ninja
at one time in my life!
I mean, jutsus are like...
the coolest thing.
You know what I'm saying?!
[laughing]
Okay, let's try it again!
Stop there! Cut!
‐ Hmmm?
You guys still look tense!
Ah, I just wanted to get
an everyday‐type of shot...
but I guess you guys
just don't have that
kind of spark, do ya?
Huh?
Guys! Listen up!
Try doing something
more ninja‐like!
Or at least something edgy!
W‐We can definitely do that!
Right?!
‐ Right!
[grunt]
Earth Style: Mud Wall!
Hmph!
Wow!
Leaf Hurricane!
Nice one!
Denki!
[pained grunt]
Substitution...Jutsu!
Fantastic! Now that's what
I call ninja‐like!
This is what I've been
looking for all along!
[gasps]
(UDON)
Just a minute!
‐ Hmmm?
You guys are scaring
everybody in the village.
[murmuring]
[gasp and groans]
But Sensei...
If we have to worry about
things like that,
then I'm going to miss
getting all the cool shots!
A ninja's life...
has to be super dramatic
and spectacular!
That's what'll capture
the eyes of
potential applicants, right?
I know!
We should block traffic
and that way,
we won't have to scare anyone.
I've decided that
we're not able to carry out
this particular mission.
I'm very sorry,
but our team must withdraw
from this project.
‐ Huh?
B‐But that's‐‐!
You can't just suddenly decide
to withdraw your team
in the middle of a production.
I still have many more
cool scenes
I was planning to shoot.
[sniff and exhale]
What do you guys think?
You think that
getting "cool shots"
is important for
this film as well?
Ah... Yeah, I guess so.
If we want more kids
to become ninja.
Those kinds of shots
might help, right?
It's important to
show 'em ninjutsu.
We're pulling out
from this mission now.
[groans]
But why?!
Fine then.
I have no idea what you're
suddenly so unhappy about.
But I'll tell ya this:
I never wanted a bunch of
wannabe ninja losers
who've been suspended
to be in my film
in the first place!
[groans]
I'll just have to
make a request
for more suitable ninja
and start my film over again
from the beginning!
Seriously! What was
Lord Hokage thinking?!
Choosing kids like you
to be in this film!
Let's go!
[grunts and groans]
[grunting]
I'll just have to
make a request
for more suitable ninja
and start my film
over again from the beginning!
I'm a capable ninja!
It's not fair!
Why does it always
end up like this?!
[roar]
Damn it!
[grunt and emotional breaths]
Stop!
Do not do it!
[pained grunt]
Damn it...
What are you doing!?
[grunt]
The headband is the symbol
that proves you are
a real ninja!
If you throw it away,
it means you are a quitter!
You swore over and over again
that you would make it
as a ninja
during the Genin Exams.
So was that a lie?!
I haven't thrown it away yet!
Stop!
Please, guys, stop fighting!
‐ Let go, Denki!
‐ [pained grunt]
Ahhh!
[gasp]
Stop right there.
Seriously...
You guys just
got out of suspension.
Do you really want to go
through it all over again?
Shut up.
Hm?!
Iwabe, stop!
I said, shut up!
You can't understand
losers like us
'cuz you've always been
the cool teacher,
who's never had to
deal with any of it!
You think I've always
been cool?
Oh yeah!
That's right...
You guys never saw how awkward
I was back in the day.
[gasps]
As a matter of fact...
I was a complete loser.
The Academy was run
differently back then,
but I failed the graduation
exam several times.
Really...Udon Sensei?
Even when I became a genin,
I messed up on my missions...
and I was a burden to
Konohomaru and Moegi too.
I‐I can't believe it...
[sniff]
But then, it was because
I went through all that,
that I realized something.
Until that's true for you,
no more missions.
C'mon.
Let's go and report in.
Yes, sir.
What do you guys think?
You think that
getting cool shots
is important for
this film as well?
What exactly...did he mean?
I was planning to do
the action shots right here...
to bring the film
to an exciting climax.
Now it's all for nothing.
Oh...um...okay...
Should we remove
the paper bombs
that we set up earlier then?
Nah... It's already set up...
and it's a condemned building
anyway,
so maybe we can still get some
usable footage out of it, huh?
Let's go ahead and blow it up
and see what kind of awesome
shots we can get!
[chattering]
Huh?
Heh?
Wow... That was a really
small explosion.
Tch.
Let's do it again.
If we just get a shot
of the smoke rising,
it really isn't going
to be all that exciting.
Huh?
Oh...
It's coming from up there.
Ahhh!
Great Leaf Hurricane!
[gasp]
Wait, isn't that‐‐?
Did anybody get hurt?!
You okay?!
Denki, please give us
your analysis!
Right!
(DENKI) I'm inside
the building's system,
activating the cameras!
I'm honing in on
the center of the crack.
It's not good.
The roof is about to collapse!
We've got to evacuate!
[gasps]
[grunt]
Iwabe!
Right!
Ahhh!
Don't worry, I got this!
Huh?
Earth Style! Stone Brick!
[winding up]
[grunt]
[panting]
That...was amazing!
Sensei! Watch out!
It's way too dangerous now!
We gotta get outta here!
[sniff]
Just a second...
I'm about to show you
an interesting jutsu
right now.
Actually, it's kind of
become my specialty.
But you guys have
to promise not to laugh.
Ninja Art: Dripping Nose!
‐ Ahhh!
Hm? Hehhhh!
[gasps]
It's incredible...
It is snot though...
[laughing]
No, it doesn't matter
what it is.
You stopped all this rubble!
Instantly!
[gasp]
What do you guys think?
You think that getting
cool shots
is important for
this film as well?
I get it now.
That's why Sensei said that...
[sniff]
Everything's all right now.
(DENKI) Doing stuff
just to look cool doesn't
necessarily mean it is cool.
And what we were taught
at the Academy
about being ninja
had nothing to do
with whether or not
we looked cool.
But all we were concerned
with was how we look,
so we tried to show off.
Ugh... That was really lame.
Well, it seems that
you finally understand.
It's a fact that enrollment
at the Academy
has been steadily dropping.
But you know...
It's not the cool ones
who become ninja.
Only those with determination
can become ninja.
No matter how tough
the training and lessons are,
even if you're covered in
mud and sweat
and look "uncool"...
you still have the strongest
desire to become a ninja.
That's the kind of student
the Academy needs.
You three did great
rescuing everyone back there.
You put everything
into practice,
and all of you did
a flawless job.
I think I'm finally beginning
to understand why it is
Lord Hokage chose our team
for this particular mission.
No way, he did?
[chuckle]
Hey, Iwabe,
where's your headband?
Huh?
‐ Oh no! Where did it go?!
‐ [gasps]
You must have lost it
during all the chaos.
We will definitely find it,
even if we end up
looking all night!
No.
It's okay, Metal.
What? But why?
It's my punishment for
trying to toss it earlier.
Besides, it's not about
whether or not
you have a headband on.
That's not what
makes you a ninja.
What really matters is
the action you take.
‐ That is cool, Iwabe...
‐ Cool, Iwabe...
Um...
I realize I have no right
to ask you this, but...
If it's okay,
do you think I could
continue filming your team?
N‐No, it's our fault.
We're the ones
who pulled out earlier.
Are you sure
it's our team you want?
I wouldn't want to do it
with anyone else.
I promise to make
a great documentary.
[chuckle]
Yes,
right over there please!
[grunt]
Ah!
One‐two, one‐two,
one‐two...
(NARUTO) I was a loser
at one time too, you know.
‐ Huh?!
I failed my graduation exams
over and over
and I always got
scolded by Iruka.
L‐Lord Hokage?!
That's hard to imagine...
Yeah, I cannot believe it.
Your name is Iwabe, right?
[gasp] Y‐You actually
know my name?
I do!
I heard there was
an amazing student this year
who was a repeater!
[gasp and quivering]
Even if you repeated,
you gave it your all
to become a genin, right?
[quivering]
It's guys like you,
with the guts to stick it out
no matter what
that the Academy needs
more than ever.
So can you see why I thought
this mission
was perfect for you?
You've already made it
this far.
You're a totally cool ninja.
It doesn't matter
if you're genin or chunin.
Don't rush.
Focus on getting stronger.
[gasp]
[stunned exhale]
Everyone helped to
look for it.
Don't lose it again, okay?
[gasp]
[chuckles]
[quivering into sobbing]
Th‐Thank you very much!
[sobbing]
They were cool.
That was well done.
Yeah, I think this film
will be super popular.
I really question
the choice of putting Dad
in it though.
Damn it,
we should've been the ones
starring in this documentary!
That's right!
We can't afford to lose!
[chuckle]
Oh yeah,
come to think of it,
I never took
the Chunin Exam,
so I guess
I'm still a genin.
‐ Huh?!
(SUMIRE) Once we capture
the Miniature Monkey,
we'll complete our mission.
(WASABI)
Leave it to me, okay?
(NAMIDA)
Shouldn't we figure out
a strategy together instead?
(WASABI) No, this'll be fine.
Be quiet, Namida!
(NAMIDA) But... I...
(WASABI) It's so annoying when
you start bawling like that!
(NAMIDA)
Wasabi, you're so mean!
I don't care anymore!
Next time on Boruto:
Naruto Next Generations:
(WASABI)
Wasabi and...
(NAMIDA)
Namida!
(SUMIRE) [nervous groan]
Wait, just hold on, you guys!
Don't fight!